I got my fire pit here already sold fire
pit and using this if you're out in the
open you're out in the region out in the
forest you think of fire safety first
clear away that 20 or 30 foot diameter
circle get everything cleared away all
the debris off the ground dig a little
trench in the ground about you know one
or two inches give doesn't have to be a
foot deep and you're not going to get a
proper ma or air flow accident so I just
got this duck down a little bit I
already established a platform in this
case I use juniper bark and then I put
my wind block there this is a piece on
duro supplying would its resinous would
notice the yellow street this is almost
entirely resin there's not a lot of wood
here believe or not you'll see as this
burns throughout the night or over the
next hour it doesn't even leave Cole's
behind just leaves ash's next thing is i
put my fuel source my tinder bundle down
in this case this is juniper i need to
create some fluffy stuff like this
remember surface area is the key in
creating ignition so if i just put this
down and I try striking it with my spark
ride where my match is not going to work
so I do this kind of bicycle pedal
motion and bust up the grasses or the
bark and get it real fluffy and hair
like I want it as fine as I can get even
this stuff falling off the ground can
save that put my bandana down on the
ground gather
so that's what I've done to create this
put this down in here if I don't have
that or let's say I did come prepared
I've got my bunch of cotton balls in
Vaseline and spread that apart put that
right down there next step is I add my
twigs and Mike handling right on top and
then let's say I need to create my twigs
I don't have any twigs because again i'm
in a hardwood forest this is where fixed
blade comes into its own so I get
another piece of wood and then I split
it again and i make about 20 of these up
i split it again cuz i want fine stuff
want this to be about pencil thick so
first step is creating a platform on the
ground using bar for twigs next part is
this wind block with solid log about you
know arm thick bicep thick or so and
then you put your tinder down or rather
your tinder bundle your cotton ball
Vaseline last step is the fuel source
the twins Rasmus would you ready to go
they get this going then I can start
piling out my other wood my finger size
would you mention my forum size away and
put that on there this is just to get it
going to survival fire